# Project : Data Warehouse

## Introduction
In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on data warehouses and AWS to build an ETL pipeline for a database hosted on Redshift. To complete the project, you will need to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift and execute SQL statements that create the analytics tables from these staging tables.

## Datasets
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.  

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.  

## Database Schema

### Fact Table
- songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
  - songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

### Dimension Tables
- users - users in the app
  - user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
- songs - songs in music database
  - song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
- artists - artists in music database
  - artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude
- time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
  - start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

## Files
- **create_table.py** is where you'll create your fact and dimension tables for the star schema in Redshift.
- **etl.py** is where you'll load data from S3 into staging tables on Redshift and then process that data into your analytics tables on Redshift.
- **sql_queries.py** is where you'll define you SQL statements, which will be imported into the two other files above.
- **README.md** is where you'll provide discussion on your process and decisions for this ETL pipeline.

## Running Files
First create a redshift cluster on AWS and fill in credentials at dwh.cfg.

### Create Tables
1. Run create_tables.py to create your database and tables.

### Build ETL Pipeline
1. Run etl.py, where you'll process the entire datasets. Remember to run create_tables.py before running etl.py to reset your tables. Run test.ipynb to confirm your records were successfully inserted into each table.
