# Project : Data Lake  

## Introduction
In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on Spark and data lakes to build an ETL pipeline for a data lake hosted on S3. To complete the project, you will need to load data from S3, process the data into analytics tables using Spark, and load them back into S3. You'll deploy this Spark process on a cluster using AWS.  

## Datasets
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.  

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.  

## Database Schema

### Fact Table
- songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
  - songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

### Dimension Tables
- users - users in the app
  - user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
- songs - songs in music database
  - song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
- artists - artists in music database
  - artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude
- time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
  - start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

## Files
- **etl.py** reads data from S3, processes that data using Spark, and writes them back to S3
- **dl.cfg** contains your AWS credentials
- **README.md** provides discussion on your process and decisions

## Running Files
First create IAM role for read and write access for S3.  
Enter your credentials at dl.cfg.
Create S3 bucket and enter URL for the output_data.  
Run python3 etl.py.
